# CertiCheck

A blockchain application to make the certification process easier for the HR interviewer. 
It constructs a Merkle Tree which contains nodes consisting of the hashes generated by the data given by the universities. 
The root of this Merkle tree is the combined hash of the all individual hashes, this root is then put on the blockchain. 
When the applicant uploads his resume, it parses the resume and extracts significant details like Name, CPI, College Name 
and Year of Graduation using NLP tecniques and stores it in a json format and creates a hash of that and combine it with 
the neighboring hashes and generates the root hash. 
It then verifies this root hash with the hash on the blockchain and accordingly decides the validity of the resume.


Why do we need this?
Research reveals that 48% of HR practitioners are so pressed for time that they cannot verify every candidate’s qualifications 
and background. Blockchain could significantly reduce this number, ensuring a high degree of trust and transparency. 
Verifying candidate qualifications and experience, while mandatory, is time-consuming for organizations, and as a result, 
it is sometimes overlooked. 
With the average employee tenure steadily decreasing and millennials looking to switch organizations often, keeping track of all 
the additions to a resume can take up valuable time from HR. 
In addition, fake CVs continue to be a valid concern for hiring managers, given that 85% of employers found at least 
one instance of falsification in 2017. 
Blockchain technology, with its assurance of transparency, promises to solve this challenge. 
In the last five years, several startups have made significant strides in this space, 
making blockchain employee verification accessible to organizations across the globe. 

A distributed and automated system for background verification could address several challenges in hiring: 
    Assessing information accurately, without manual effort
    Depending on third-party vendors for verification, adding to hiring costs 
    Inability to verify employment if the last place of work has gone out of business
